doc/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

RapidCheck has several parameters that affect testing. These can be configured by setting the `RC_PARAMS` environment variable to a configuration string. The configuration string as the format `<key1>=<value1> <key2>=<value2> ...`. Values containing spaces can be quoted and backslash works as an escape character, just as you would expect.

When RapidCheck is initialized, it prints the configuration that is used excluding parameters that are set to their default value. For example, when running a test without changing the defaults, the following could be printed:

```text
Using configuration: seed=8482903616249937941
```

This allows you to reproduce the exact test in case of a failure.

## Reference

The following settings are provided:

- `seed` - The global random seed used. This is a 64-bit integer. If not set, a random one is chosen using the system random device.
- `max_success` - The maximum number of successful test cases to run before deciding that a property holds. Defaults to `100`.
- `max_size` - The maximum size to use. The size starts at `0` and increases to `max_size` as the final value. Defaults to `100`.
- `max_discard_ratio` - The maximum number of discarded test cases per successful test case. If exceeded, RapidCheck gives up on the property. Defaults to `10`.
- `noshrink` - If set to `1`, disables test case shrinking. Defaults to `0`.
- `verbose_progress` - If set to `1`, enables verbose feedback of progress during the testing of a property. For each test case that is run, a character will be printed. Default is `0`. Legend:
  - `.` - Success
  - `x` - Discarded
- `verbose_shrinking` - If set to `1`, enables verbose feedback during shrinking. For each shrink that is tried, a character will be printed. Default is `0`. Legend:
  - `.` - Unsuccessful shrink
  - `!` - Successful shrink
- `reproduce` - Opaque string that encodes the information necessary to reproduce minimal failures for properties. Since this string is opaque, it can only be obtained from a failed RapidCheck run. Refer to the [debugging documentation](debugging.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Allow configuration parameters to be read from file and update documentation

doc/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

RapidCheck has several parameters that affect testing. These can be configured by setting the `RC_PARAMS` environment variable to a configuration string. The configuration string as the format `<key1>=<value1> <key2>=<value2> ...`. Values containing spaces can be quoted and backslash works as an escape character, just as you would expect.
Another option is to write the configuration parameters in the same format as above in a file named `rc_params.txt`. The file can also contain multiple lines of `<key>=<value>` pairs. The configuration file must be located in the same directory where the program that uses rapidcheck is run.

When RapidCheck is initialized, it prints the configuration that is used excluding parameters that are set to their default value. For example, when running a test without changing the defaults, the following could be printed:

```text
Using configuration: seed=8482903616249937941
```

This allows you to reproduce the exact test in case of a failure.

## Reference

The following settings are provided:

- `seed` - The global random seed used. This is a 64-bit integer. If not set, a random one is chosen using the system random device.
- `max_success` - The maximum number of successful test cases to run before deciding that a property holds. Defaults to `100`.
- `max_size` - The maximum size to use. The size starts at `0` and increases to `max_size` as the final value. Defaults to `100`.
- `max_discard_ratio` - The maximum number of discarded test cases per successful test case. If exceeded, RapidCheck gives up on the property. Defaults to `10`.
- `noshrink` - If set to `1`, disables test case shrinking. Defaults to `0`.
- `verbose_progress` - If set to `1`, enables verbose feedback of progress during the testing of a property. For each test case that is run, a character will be printed. Default is `0`. Legend:
  - `.` - Success
  - `x` - Discarded
- `verbose_shrinking` - If set to `1`, enables verbose feedback during shrinking. For each shrink that is tried, a character will be printed. Default is `0`. Legend:
  - `.` - Unsuccessful shrink
  - `!` - Successful shrink
- `reproduce` - Opaque string that encodes the information necessary to reproduce minimal failures for properties. Since this string is opaque, it can only be obtained from a failed RapidCheck run. Refer to the [debugging documentation](debugging.md) for more information.
